---
layout: post
title: (Near) Daily Reflections Commence
subtitle: Selected Ramblings, Only Slightly Editted
---

## 003: 01.01
**when do I** find the time to do (good) work? The "free" or down time at work is unpredictable & ultimately undesired. Weekends are a good - the best - time to spend w/the family & truly experience "what it's all about". Nights, mornings? Obviously I have to be a time thief, & a damn consistent one, if I expect to get things out on a regular basis, which is the goal. More foresight & continous effort, or really more of the same to date. _**keywords**: time; consistency; planning_

## 003: 02.02
**my time is** precious regardless of how much I'll be able to set aside
for my interests. My concern here is with thinking deeply to become
most effective. If I imagined that the process would be "easy" or flow
what comes to mind are: predefined topics, schedule of writing,
getting data proactively, an iterative writing process, commitment to
delivery. Getting into the nitty gritty, breaking down the
essentials/objectives of each post is critical to my getting to work
immediately when I have the time and not wasting time figuring out
what to do next. Other elements of the process: time away to think and
be surprised by ideas, notetaking, regular indexing of ideas, regular
prioritization of tasks. _**keywords**: planning; process; time management_

## 003: 03.03
**by the nature** of the work, by intention, by design, I will flounder
and struggle through. How do I focus and discipline myself to identify
and work on the required items to get the task done? Threats:
discouragement, frustration, distraction… I need to be ruthless in
identifying what needs to be done, find a holding in the assignment,
and progress a little each time. Yes! How do I create a small
win/success each time I work? The hours and effort are a foregone
conclusion - I need to have physical demonstrable progress to show for
each sitting. 
keywords: progress, deliver, learn, defining success

## 003: 04.04
Deadlines: taxes and posting. It's very likely that the piece I
publish will be in complete with respect to what I had envisioned. Not
different from what I was aiming for but actually incomplete. The
challenges that came up were too frequent… Excuses, but lessons
learned, as well. I could've course hold off, but that brings up the
question of what it is I'm trying to accomplish, and putting out the
best work is only part of actually putting out work. The piece runs, I
reassess, and I Move On. There's a whole lot going on here and I
believe the best way to learn how to do it is to actually do it.
Keywords: deliver, lessons learned, incomplete, schedule

## 003: 05.05
How to deal with incomplete work? Yesterday I put up my third
"complete" piece. It was shit and it did not have all of the elements
I desired. In truth, the visuals are even now not rendering properly
but that's more of a technical issue I will handle later is not what I
am chiefly referring to. In the last couple of hours of work I did the
best I could but together something publishable and I had an effective
sprint to the finish line I've been clear on what I wanted to get done
in the limited time and sticking to it. That part of the process
should be used again and again. Ultimately I did the right thing by
putting up what I had at the time: develop the habit prepping and
letting it go, it is a learning experience, and no one is reading my
work at the time, which is a great opportunity to make the most
mistakes. The two fundamental part of my work or writing and data.
While one needs the other in order to be successful it is pretty
obvious that they should be done, for the most part, apart from one
another and not at the computer. Of course there will be spill over,
and I certainly hope so, but compartmentalizing better should lead to
more complete and completed work. Notes on writing: don't need a
computer or the same platform as the web publishing, start early, take
down all notes possible during the week, have fun and do not play it
safe (for my purposes the writing is equally important to the data
work, if not more). Keywords: writing, planning, ship work,
compartmentalize

## 003: 06.06
Available time and the desire to do the work won't always present
themselves at the same time; how do you get work done when you're not
in the mood (lack of energy, creativity, motivation, increased
doubts)? This reminds me of the jujitsu challenge. I loved jujitsu
training but after a day of work, and not infrequently, a morning gym
session as well, getting on the subway to make class could be quite
difficult. All of the excuses and temptations would pop up offering
you an out. However, if I was able to make it, and thankfully this did
happen more often than not, I was always grateful. Once I was on the
mat in training all the rest did not matter. Having tough moments says
nothing, to me at least, about how badly you want something in the
long run: there are two different perspectives and they will not
always be along. In order to leverage the short term to help you reach
long-term destination need to plan. Make it as easy as possible to get
something done. My work requires/involves three main areas: writing,
data, and web presentation. Each of these areas have to-do's that can
be split into infinite categories but if I look at just two or three
(easy, medium, hard) ahead of time then I can offload the effort of
determining what needs to be done (the task itself) and cherry pick
the ones with the necessary effort that will get me started. Once on
the mat more likely than not the work will begin to come. Keywords:
planning, stack the deck, prioritize, segment work

## 003: 07.07
Take a break today so you can work more over the next week. What about
when "work" in the moment and for the near short term is not the
answer and actually part of the problem? Due to many factors, not the
least of which is the need to sit and stare at a computer screen,
putting in more work at a given time to be counterproductive to your
effectiveness, creativity, and happiness. I experience the general
malaise yesterday, it being Sunday certainly played some part in it,
and while doing some work helped a bit (mostly due to the outcome and
not as much due to the process) I most helped myself by taking some
time away doing chores and reading. Due to the need to take the hours
when they are presented I did get back on the horse but it's worth
noting that this won't always be the case and that once again I need
to remember it is about the long-term - the continued sustained effort
the builds to ... Keywords: gradual progress, stepping back, long term
vision, rebalance toward off-line work

## 003: 08.08
Where to branch out to Suez to introduce variety, a break in the
pressure, and yet not get too far off topic and destructed? I'm
figuring it out as I go along and the current thought is to put out
for beer/data pieces, and off-topic posts, and the retrospective each
quarter. That comes out to postings a month with a little cushion
built and with respect to topic fatigue. For someone who's never done
this, beyond the last three posts, I believe this is ambitious but
doable. Besides the scope/topic creep is the ever present concern
regarding time and energy. Pro active topic selection, data
identification and acquisition, data cleaning and analysis, and
writing are the key to success. I currently have a list of 50+ blog
ideas, a rough outline of what to get most data plus actually have
been collected a substantial amount in the past year. The blog ideas
and data are on Drive, along with other admin documents and to-do. At
the risk of forcing too much structure and potentially distracting
work about work (meta-work) it may be time to (re) introduce a simple
Excel Combon dashboard outlining the status of posts and most
especially data work. Keywords: schedule, planning, tools, time,
proactive
